[doc] Improve Pulsar Security Encryption (#5091)
apache/pulsar: site2/docs/security-encryption.md

sidebar_label: End-to-End Encryption
---

> Pulsar encryption allows applications to encrypt messages at the producer side and decrypt messages at the consumer side. You can use the public and private key pair that the application configures to perform encryption. Only the consumers with a valid key can decrypt the encrypted messages.

Reviewer: do not use "allow".
Check styles in IBM style guides.

## Asymmetric and symmetric encryption

Pulsar uses dynamically generated symmetric AES key to encrypt messages(data). You can use the application provided ECDSA/RSA key pair to encrypt the AES key(data key), so you do not have to share the secret with everyone.

Key is a public and private key pair used for encryption or decryption. The producer key is the public key of the key pair, and the consumer key is the private key of the key pair.

The application configures the producer with the public key. You can use this key to encrypt the AES data key. The encrypted data key is sent as part of message header. Only entities with the private key (in this case the consumer) are able to decrypt the data key which is used to decrypt the message.

You can encrypt a message with more than one key. Any one of the keys used for encrypting the message is sufficient to decrypt the message.

> Pulsar does not store the encryption key anywhere in the pulsar service. If you lose ordelete the private key, your message is irretrievably lost, and is unrecoverable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pulsar does not store the encryption key anywhere in the Pulsar service. If you lose or delete the private key, your message is irretrievably lost, and is unrecoverable.
```

Reviewer: "Pulsar", "Apache Pulsar" are proper nouns for this project.

## Here are the steps to get started:

1. Enter the commands below to create your ECDSA or RSA public and private key pair.

```shell
openssl ecparam -name secp521r1 -genkey -param_enc explicit -out test_ecdsa_privkey.pem
openssl ec -in test_ecdsa_privkey.pem -pubout -outform pkcs8 -out test_ecdsa_pubkey.pem
```

2. Add the public and private key to the key management and configure your producers to retrieve public keys and consumers clients to retrieve private keys.

3. Implement CryptoKeyReader::getPublicKey() interface from producer and CryptoKeyReader::getPrivateKey() interface from consumer, which Pulsar client invokes to load the key.

4. Add encryption key to producer configuration: conf.addEncryptionKey("myapp.key")

> 5. Add CryptoKeyReader implementation to producer or consumer config: conf.setCryptoKeyReader(keyReader)

Reviewer: do we need to add a period at the end of the sentence?

```

## Key rotation

> Pulsar generates new AES data key every 4 hours or after publishing a certain number of messages. Producer fetch the asymmetric public key every 4 hours by calling CryptoKeyReader::getPublicKey() to retrieve the latest version.

Reviewer: Producer fetch?
Producers fetch
or
A producer fetches

> ## Enable encryption at the producer application:

Reviewer: do not add any punctuation for headings
check all similar cases.

If you produce messages that are consumed across application boundaries, you need to ensure that consumers in other applications have access to one of the private keys that can decrypt the messages. You can do this in two ways:
1. The consumer application provides you access to their public key, which you add to your producer keys.
2. You grant access to one of the private keys from the pairs that producer uses. 

> In some cases, the producer may want to encrypt the messages with multiple keys. For this, add all such keys to the config. Consumer is able to decrypt the message, as long as the consumer has access to at least one of the keys.

Reviewer: Check and refine this sentence.

> Here is an example if you need to encrypt the messages using 2 keys (myapp.messagekey1 and myapp.messagekey2):

Reviewer: Try to not use "Here is" in technical writing. Check IBM style guides.
